November 5, 2023
Will

Some training laps and a little fun on Cathedral Ledge. 

Separately, we'd had late Friday nights, but we must share an earlier morning to start my car for the first time in two months. It had sat idle in my driveway while I spent the Fall in Europe.

It's a chilly morning, and the leaves are piled high on my windshield, glued on by caked-on pollen and dust and rainwater and all the things that settle in the New England Fall.

With some work, I clear the windshield just enough to see, and I fumble the clutch as I become reacquainted with my little hatchback. We've packed her with climbing gear, summit beers, caffeine, and Ivan's psych -- the latter two fuel the conversation for our two-and-a-half-hour drive to North Conway. I may be the one driving the car today, but Ivan's the one with the roadmap.

Because Ivan has plans for us. This is how he is -- he's always been the one to set goals whereas I have always struggled with vision. We've been climbing together on and off for the past few years, and we've never done anything close to remarkable. But that had never bothered me. We've never been the breed of go-getters focused solely on performance, and our track record reflected that. Climbing is just for fun, so why make it complicated? But there is something about hitting your mid-20s that brings the future into an uncomfortable focus. Months seem to slip away with monotony, and you worry if you don't focus you may find yourself in entirely unintended places.

So Ivan made a goal for us. A year from now, we will be in Yosemite climbing a big wall, Washington Column. But today, we're going to Cathedral Ledge.

We don't get to the wall until 11 a.m. Too much beer last night and too much caffeine this morning have made for significant delays. There are plenty of parties making their way up Funhouse, and it's looking like we'll be bringing up the rear. No big deal, we can take our time.

So we start racking up. Ivan's brought everything and the kitchen sink, too. We haven't yet learned how to pare down our racks, and we'll pay for it by lugging it all to the top of the cliff. We even have time to tape our hands in preparation for the few hand cracks we'll find on the route -- hand cracks are a precious commodity in New England. 

While we fumble with our tape, a man hastily arrives at the base of our route. There is still a party at the first belay, but we can tell this man will not be waiting. Ivan and I do not have to be asked, we offer to let him and his partner, who is still making his way up the approach, go ahead of us. He's gracious, and once the rope is on, he's off the ground before his partner is even on the other end. Eventually, the rope goes tight and seems to carry his partner up the cliff, never to be seen again.

Our much more relaxed pace eventually puts us on a large ledge after two pitches. We carry the rope, uncoiled but messily stacked on my shoulders, up some easy fourth-class scrambling so we can climb Upper Refuse to the top. After some optional off-width shenanigans where Ivan tries his best to get his leg stuck, we're on top of Cathedral Ledge. We are rewarded with a beautiful view while we drink the beers we brought, as is tradition. 

The sun sets early these days, but we've got a few more hours of daylight. We begin the walk down the road to the base, flashing our thumbs for cars that are passing us by. One stops, and we hop in the back of a Lexus driven by an older couple whose names I heard but don't remember. We make small talk, the man driving makes an awkward dirty joke, and we are dumped at the base of Thin Air Face. With the time we've saved, we make it up Toe Crack before the sun begins to set. 

I win the honor of leading the money pitch because paper beats rock, and I clumsily make my way up the longest continuous crack I've seen on the East Coast. Nerves and bad technique pump me out of the 5.7 crack once, but I eventually make my way to the tree at the top. By the time we are setting up our rappel, the sun is setting somewhere behind the cliff. By the time we are on the ground, it's dark. We tread through the sea of dead leaves back to the car. 

It's been a good day. We eat pizza somewhere in North Conway and talk about what's next.